---
layout: post
title:      "Why I Wanted to Learn Programming"
date:       2017-12-21 08:33:23 +0000
permalink:  why_i_wanted_to_learn_programming
---


Having been a recording artist and touring musician for the past 8 years, I have taken a particular interest in the various web-based solutions artists use to manage, distribute and track their content online and out in the world (streaming platforms, record labels, publishing companies, performance rights organizations etc.). My experiences, good and bad, gradually opened my eyes to just how flawed the juxtaposition of old and new systems governing intellectual property are. Once I began learning about the whole process of claiming royalties (of which there are at least 50 different types) I began asking questions; Why is the music industry so messy? Why is it so difficult for artists to properly manage their intellectual property? Why is there such limited transparency? How did we get here? Is it really that difficult to sort all of this out? Why does everything take so long? Could it possibly be any worse?

I realised I was spending far more time trying to track down my royalties than I was creating art. So there I was, feeling frustrated, trying to search the web for better solutions. Then, soon after, I came across [this article](https://noisey.vice.com/en_us/article/d37mez/these-7-blockchain-apps-could-help-musicians-get-paid) that one of my music friends had posted on facebook. The article explains how blockchain technology companies could end up re-shaping the whole music industry. The article is pretty vague, and sort of misleading, but I guess I read it at just the right moment in time. I was already quite interested in cryptocurrencies but I didn't really know anything about the technologies behind them. The article didn't do much to satisfy my curiosity so I started digging further. 

Over the next couple of months I really went down a rabbithole like I never had before. To feed my curiosity I listened to numerous podcasts and audiobooks about blockchain technology. I went down to the local library and picked up a few books and read articles. I managed to read a couple of less technical ones like [Blockchain Revolution](http://blockchain-revolution.com) but when things got even slightly technical I really hit a wall. 

So, because I needed to know more, I started taking some courses on coursera, codeacademy, udemy, lynda.com. I did beginner courses in Ruby, Html, CSS, and Javascript. I was so surprised at how interesting I was finding all of the languages and my curiosity kept on growing. I found myself becoming interested in all technology more and more - robotics, AI, 3d rendering, I even became more interested in sound design. A couple months went by and I had barely made any music. I never thought of myself as a technical person, but I was enjoying the formulaic nature of writing code to solve problems. In programming - if something isn't working, you can find out why. In music - if something isn't working - there are a million reasons and a million solutions. But no guarantee you'll ever make it work. Then, even if you think it works, the audience may not. Or it may never be heard. When I was coding, I felt like I was using parts of my brain that hadn't been used before and it was very satisfying. I even felt like I was being *more* creative than when I was making music. 

To me, there seems to be an awesome overlap between technology and art. Before programming, I would dream up all these ideas and end up self-censoring, telling myself things like "I would never be able to make that happen without having a whole lot of money to pay people to help me build them" or "that just isn't possible". Now that I've decided to give myself tools to be able to build these things from scratch, I feel like my brain is firing on all cylinders and I have more ideas than ever. This journey has been awesome so far and I can't wait to start bringing my ideas to life.
